Error Raised - 
Exception in thread "main" java.awt.HeadlessException:
No X11 DISPLAY variable was set,
but this program performed an operation which requires it.
at java.desktop/java.awt.GraphicsEnvironment.checkHeadless(GraphicsEnvironment.java:165)
at java.desktop/java.awt.Window.<init>(Window.java:540)
at java.desktop/java.awt.Frame.<init>(Frame.java:423)
at java.desktop/java.awt.Frame.<init>(Frame.java:388)
at SubjectDetails.<init>(Main.java:4)
at SubjectDetails.main(Main.java:71)


How i discover this ? 
1. With the reference of my Lab Manual , i learnt about the "Event Handling" and "AWT" through the program .
2. I applied my understanding in the form of this code 
3. Ran the program in the system which has the Windows 11  Operating System 
4. Debugging in some stages leads to finished working module 
5. Copied the code from Subject_Details.java file 
6. Ran in the online interpreter 
7. Throws the error 
8. Started to think how to debug and then found the reasons .
9. Now , more understanding will leads to better Applications.


Error Case Study -
This Project1 code will throw an  error , if it is ran in the following environment 
1. Mobile Online Applications which has the interpreter. Since Mobile's Operating System is ios and Android it cant handle the AWT operations i.e events .
2. Operating System which doesn't support Windows GUI Applications or Environment to do events through peripheral devices i.e Mouse and Keyboard .


Way i have choosen to debug - 
If i given above code to check and debug in chatgpt, it explains the following reasons 
""You are running the program in a headless environment
Example:
Online compiler
Terminal without GUI
Server / cloud / Replit / CodeRunner
AWT needs a graphical screen, mouse, window system (X11)
 AWT cannot run without a GUI display""
""Works perfectly on:
Windows
Linux (with desktop)
macOS""
"" If you want it to run ANYWHERE (online)
Rewrite using console-based Java code ""


Outcome is  - 
1. Java is platform-independent, but GUI environments are not.
2. Platform independence means “Write Once, Run Anywhere with JVM support”, not “Run everywhere without system requirements.
3. AWT depends on native GUI systems (like Windows Desktop, Linux X11, macOS graphics). If a system has no display (headless server), GUI programs cannot run even though Java itself is portable.
4. The JVM can execute your logic on any platform, but hardware features like screen, mouse, or graphics must still be provided by the OS.
5. An error raised is not a Java limitation; it is an environment limitation. The same code runs perfectly on any OS that has a graphical display.
***Java is platform-independent, but GUI libraries like AWT require a graphical environment; therefore portability depends on both the JVM and the availability of system resources such as a display server***

